# II. Company Description

## 1. Mission

SocialQ aims to help brands understand what content resonates with their audiences.
Using Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Artificial Intelligence tweets can be classified by topic. 
Measuring the average engagement will provide useful hints to what type of content is useful and can lead to growth and sales.
Additionally, the same technology can be applied to understand what type of audience is your follower base comprised and to which niches they belong. 
Aggregating that type of previously unstructured data provides valuable knowledge to think strategically about your brand and business.

## 2. Vision

As SocialQ gains leadership we aim to provide our customer with additional tools to further expand their network. 
The first step is by facilitating creating synergy between organization and niche communities.
Secondly, we will provide a cruptocurrency to track and retribute brands that cross-promote.
Finally by understanding the needs and message of our customers we will act as middle-man connecting them and creating new business oportunities for them.

## 3. Goals

The first goal is to create a SaaS that provides value to our customers, that alone should take care of profitability.
The second goal is creating content that fosters our growth past a break-even spot.
The third short term goal is to implement growth hacking techniques that can bring resources to fulfill our vision.

## 4. Target Market

Currently we do not have definied our target market. 
There are a lot of Twitter users and is not easy to know who will benefit the most from our future product. We do envision that ideally our users will have the following characteristics:
* At least 10% of their leads and new vistors come from Twitter.
* Tweet often and several times a day.
* Their content is diverse and achieves various engagement levels.
* Have already earned revenue and are looking to grow.
* Analytical profile, and can make data-driven decisions.

## 5. Industry

Our product falls in three different industries: Marketing, SaaS & Artificial Intelligence.
Marketing is characterized by strong competition, SaaS is favoured by investors because of their stable earnings and potential growth and AI is agressively expanding. 

We will differentiate beacuse of our product and features, the technology we are based was only made available in 2019 and we have a proprietary Database to provide unique features.

We aim to serve a quickly growing industry of content creators and startups that require to create awareness to grow sales and remain competitive.

During early stages our moat will be first-to-market, as we consolidate in the market it will be our content, unique research and network that will provide network effects for own customers.
