# YC Application

1. Company name:
SocialQ

2. Company url, if any:
https://branding.gq/

3. If you have a demo, what's the url? Demo can be anything that shows us how the product works. Usually that's a video or screen recording.
* KPIs
* Engagement Map
* Niche Bars
* Link Correlations
* Topic Suggestions


4. Describe what your company does in 50 characters or less.
AI Analytics to write more engaging content.

5. What is your company going to make? Please describe your product and what it does or will do.
SocialQ uses AI to transform texts into numerical values.
This allows plotting unstructured, text data as if it is done in analytics-heavy industries like finance, and marketing.
One of our first features classifies tweets across 80 topics using a proprietary database curated specifically for content creators.

Currently, internet brands that use Twitter to grow awareness of their products have difficulty predicting what type of content will generate engagement. By showing them what content is getting the best results, they will be able to save time and create more leads.  SocialQ will be the difference between tweeting randomly and creating content with a repeatable process.

In the future, I expect this technology to be used in journalism, blogging, online communities like Slack & Discord, other text-heavy social media like LinkedIn or Instagram photo descriptions & headlines A/B testing.

6. Please enter the url of a 1 minute unlisted (not private) YouTube video introducing the founder(s). This video is an important part of the application. (Follow the Video Guidelines.)
* I like to write and read.
* I was worried that I was not getting distribution.
* I also wanted to know what content would hit. 
* I experienced the same problem as a founder.
* Decade of NLP.
