7. How far along are you?
I'm close to launching the MVP that will enable me to test the following hypothesis during the rest of the year:
* Does engagement increase using analytical data and insights?
* Are content creators willing to adopt new tools during their creative process?


8. How long have each of you been working on this? How much of that has been full-time? Please explain.
8 months full-time (October 2020 - May 2020  & August 2021 - present).

I started working on this idea last October and launched the first version back in January. After two months of growing the product, I learned that its value was not enough for users to pay for the product when they had the default Analytics offered by Twitter. There was, however, interest in AI features as exemplified by the Composer feature. 

Then, I took 3 months to test pivoting ideas, and develop the AI technology that was required to provide a clearly differentiated version. One of these ideas got me a 3-month consulting gig which was well to gain back my confidence.

I am now close to finishing the consulting gig, and working on SocialQ full-time (40 hours a week).


9. If you are applying with the same idea as a previous batch, did anything change? If you applied with a different idea, why did you pivot and what did you learn from the last idea?
Yes, I'm applying with the same idea as the last batch. 

The main change lies in the technology (NLP) that is used to offer the insights to write better content.

I also have more experience as a founder, a better understanding of the problem & industry & a growing network.

10. If you have already participated or committed to participate in an incubator, "accelerator" or "pre-accelerator" program, please tell us about it.
As an engineer, I've participated in Techstars and Acceleprise. Never as a founder, and not with this idea.
