13. Why did you pick this idea to work on? Do you have domain expertise in this area? How do you know people need what you're making?
I picked the idea after launching my first product. I recognized that without a network or audience I had little chance of success. No matter how cool the product would be, this was reinforced by my experience as a writer (where distribution matters more than content). So I decided to build a product that would help me grow a network and/or audience.

I have experience in NLP through the CS224N/U YouTube Stanford Lectures. I've been applying this knowledge for more than 2 years and I've started studying Machine Learning over 10 years ago. About the industry, I lacked the experience when I first started, and it's until this day a big source of obstacles. Yet, I'm passionate because I love writing.

I know that people want this because there are a ton of courses offered and purchased to teach how to create good content. Additionally, content creation is a growing industry, as privacy concerns are creating opportunities outside of the traditional advertisement space. Finally, I have the experience of the first version of the product where people were interested in the idea & execution but not ready to pay (yet).


14. What's new about what you're making? What substitutes do people resort to because it doesn't exist yet (or they don't know about it)?
What I'm doing for content creation is similar to how Amplitude transformed the way digital products are build and developed. Before Amplitude products were developed based on instinct on gut feeling, the same happens at the moment for the content creation industry.

Besides the online courses alternatives include:
* Digital marketing agencies, freelancers, and interns to outsource content creation tasks.
* Social media listeners SaaS products that incorporate default Twitter metrics and sentiment analysis like HubSpot & SocialSprout.
* Tools to schedule and repurpose content like Buffer.

None of these options solve the real problem: how to create great content scalably?


15. Who are your competitors, and who might become competitors? Who do you fear most?
My biggest competitor is Ahref that provides data to help writers create sought stories. However, there is no established player that solves the same content-discovery problem for Twitter and its distinctive complexities.

Most likely new competitors would rise from a mixed academic & enterprise background. Because the technology that I use (sentence-encoder, BERT & other NLP models) is relatively new (2018 - 2019).

My biggest fear at the moment is being tied to Twitter before the technology is able to be used in other contexts. Some would say GPT-3 and other text generation tools would provide competition, but that is not at all the market I'm after (today).


16. What do you understand about your business that other companies in it just don't get?
I've written online for 2 years so I understand how frustrating it is to invest 40+ hours in a good piece of content and fail due to an over-reliance on external distribution mechanisms like Medium or Google's SEO.

My background in NLP is not limited to data visualization it also includes recommendation engines, summarization, and text generation. I've only met a few persons so passionate about advances in Machine Learning, and even for them is difficult to translate that into digital products which I also love!


17. How do or will you make money? How much could you make?
During the next 4 months, I'm focused on finding the 100 people that love our product. This will help me narrow the early adopter market and tailor the AI technology.

I have early ideas for revenue that include:
* Traditional premium charts & features including a second version of the "Engagement Editor".

* Market segmentation: charge based on the number of followers and/or tweets.

Underdeveloped long-term ideas include:
* Shared dashboards to connect enterprise customers drive a single message through all their employees.
* A marketplace: either for Data Scientists to sell their charts and analysis, or freelancers backed by data.
* A closed economy that rewards users' cross-promotion.

All these ideas, follow the same pattern: how to increase engagement & distribution for content creators. The ultimate goal is to create a SaaS that grows its revenue derived by increases in the number of seats (e.g. employees) & cost per seat (e.g. number of followers/tweets per user).

Two optimistic scenarios two consider:
1. Gain a solid presence on Twitter. Considering that Twitter has 200 Mio monetizable users, if we can capture the 1% of top creators, that is 20 Mio MRR at $10 per customer.

2. Leaders in the content creation industry: The global advertising market size is worth 600+ Billion and growing at 15%. If the content creation space, currently at 10+ Billion, becomes a real substitute for customer awareness & acquisition and grows at a 20% rate it will become a 50Billion industry, and SocialQ positioned as a leading provider and pioneer of the industry.

Notes on scenario A: 
* Twitter users are among the most affluent of all social networks.
* A close partnership with Twitter paves the way for a 5-year quick, highly, profitable exit (if that's desired).


18. How will you get users? If your idea is the type that faces a chicken-and-egg problem in the sense that it won't be attractive to users till it has a lot of users (e.g. a marketplace, a dating site, an ad network), how will you overcome that?
I have around 1,500 followers on Twitter, SEO experience from 2 years of blogging, and a solid presence on niche communities like Indie Hackers.

To get the first 100 users I will use a mix of warm outreach by email and DM in my personal network and cold outreach in 2 markets I'm interested in serving: journalism & investors. 

From they I will well-established growth strategies, and some new ones leveraging the Twitter virality mechanisms (like bots, and pricing-based analytics).

The Go-to-Market strategy is mostly based on the advice from the 24-steps of a disciplined entrepreneur. A terrific guide by MIT for founders that have a new technology and want to turn it into a product.


19. If you have not formed the company yet, describe the planned equity ownership breakdown among the founders, employees and any other proposed stockholders. If there are multiple founders, be sure to give the proposed equity ownership of each founder.
I will go as a solo founder leaving up to 30% for advisors and early employees to compensate for any lack of skills of time I have during the early stages of the startup.

This is based on the Founder's Dilemma book about which I posted on the Forum: https://www.startupschool.org/posts/43456


20. Please provide any other relevant information about the structure or formation of the company.
I'm provisioning 5 advisors: Software, Product, Sales, Fundraising & AI. I already got candidates for each of them, one is a YC founder that just got its Seed Round.

I have a challenge that YC is uniquely positioned to offer help: I'm a Latin founder serving an American industry, so far innovation in LATAM is focused on adopting established technology and business models from other markets (tropicalization). I want to be of the few to create a truly disruptive technology, from an ecosystem outside of the Valley :)


21. Who writes code, or does other technical work on your product? Was any of it done by a non-founder? Please explain.
I write the code, as I have worked in startups for the last 4 years. 
Before that, I experienced 10x growth curiously in a non-startup environment but driven by technological innovation and terrific execution.

The code is currently open sourced at: https://github.com/SocialQu/Branding.

22. Is there anything else we should know about your company?
During the first version, I got a lot of help from a co-founder. I also do not expect issues, and I would actually consider onboard her again.
