23. If you had any other ideas you considered applying with, please list them. One may be something we've been waiting for. Often when we fund people it's to do something they list here and not in the main application.
I'm passively pursuing other interesting ideas:
1. A Bot to teach Spanish using GPT-3. I already have a partner (she has a small business to connect students with native speakers), and access to GPT-3 we are still working on prototyping the technology and defining the business model.
2. An online interactive course to learn Astrology and how to live according to it. I have custom software written for it, and I truly believe I'm one of 10 persons in the world that can open this market to the startup ecosystem.
3. Fractional CTO as a Service. My vision is in 5 years turn this business into an incubator connecting future American entrepreneurs with Mexican engineering talent (sort of a pre-YC).

Other ideas I've paused:
1. Personalized newsletters based on: https://cortazar.ml
2. Interactive NLP courses as shown on: https://borgez.ml
3. Transcription and summarization of video conferences as started in: https://github.com/SocialQu/Suss

Ideas I'm developing:
1. A peer-to-peer platform to outsource personal communication to bots.
Basically, you train 5+ different bots based on your interests/goals, and these bots chat with each other and find potential areas for collaboration. 
The bots are retrained based on your online presence, either blog, Twitter, emails, or what you feel comfortable sharing.


24. Please tell us something surprising or amusing that one of you has discovered.
After consulting in a Computer Vision startup, I'm more convinced than ever that NLP is a technology that will leverage advances in AI and boost productivity for the next decade. 

The reason it will outcompete Computer Vision is deployment costs as measured by time of usage (until some AI glasses are built). Additionally, today we are far behind in information and knowledge that visual insights :)

In summary, the 2020s is the decade of NLP, following Crypto (2010s), Mobile (2000s), Internet (1990s), and PC's (1980s).

A final reflection is how our communication habits will adapt from the expectation of errors during AI-generated communication.


25. What convinced you to apply to Y Combinator? Did someone encourage you to apply?
Becoming a founder has been a dream since I dropped out of college 10 years ago, and during the last months, I've met amazing founders backed by you. 

I want to be part of your network, and I'm more motivated than ever.
