# III. Products & Services

SocialQ main product is a web application that offers daily stats based on your Twitter Activity.
The app has a top chart that tracks the 30 day stats and provides 4 KPIs: tweets, impressions, engagements & new followers. The chart is adjustable and can support two dimensions.

Below are four tables: topics, niches, audience and links.
The first 3 classify tweets, replies and followers by topic.
The links table tracks the different links shared and its engagement, but can also be classified by topics.

Each table has a multiple tabs to show different stats, and upon click the detail of each topic is shown and the main chart is updated.

## 1. The Problem we Solve

When creating content is not easy to know what works for your brand, creates engagement, leads, drives traffic and grow sales. 

Most analytics tools provides stats similar to the Tweeter native ones, this is usually offered as a complement of another feature like tweeter scheduling. 

The problem is that this stats while helpful to measure the performance of a Twitter account, provide little insights as what type of content to focus on.

While many tools follow a similar approach to Google Analytics or other web related platforms. Twitter enables brands to fully understand who is their target market and work with them to provide more value for their customers.

## 2. Unique Features

Our differentiation is the NLP engine that maps tweets to sentence embeddings and NLP technology to represent meaning with mathematical vectors.

The sentence embeddings are then mapped to a topic using our proprietary databse collected for the past year.

We use the mappings to find the distinct topics, niches and audiences that work for our user's brands.

There are different alternatives to have premium features:
* Customizable topics.
* Actionable insights.
* Engament editor.
* Innovaive business models.

## 3. Pricing

There are 3 different pricing scenarios we are contemplating:

1. A B2B sales cycle with an average of $20 USD per user per month. This scenario is ideal when our community and aggreagation tools are ready. This could be expected for early 2022.

2. A B2C low cost monthly subscription around $5 per month. While there are benefits to this approach (potential high revenue), we might not achieve the growth or awareness we would expect.

3. A Freemium model based on waiting list. In this scenario, for every paying user 10 free users would be created. The premium user would enjoy some premium features and get invites for their friends to subscribe. Yearly subscriptions could be suplemented by a Twitter strategy flow diagram. Additionally, tactics as raffles and retweet contests could be held for advancing in the waiting list.
