# X. Refining the Plan 

Modify your business plan for your specific needs, audience and industry. Here are some guidelines to help:

## For Raising Capital from Bankers 

Bankers want to know that you’ll be able to repay the loan. If the business plan is for bankers or other lenders, include:
* How much money you’re seeking 
* How you’ll use the money
* How that will make your business stronger
* Requested repayment terms (number of years to repay)
* Any collateral you have and a list of all existing liens against your collateral

## For Raising Capital from Investors 

Investors are looking for dramatic growth, and they expect to share in the rewards. If the business plan is for investors, include:
* Investment amount you need short-term
* Investment amount you’ll need in two to five years
* How you’ll use the money and how that will help your business grow 
* Estimated return on investment
* Exit strategy for investors (buyback, sale or IPO)
* Percentage of ownership you will give investors
* Milestones or conditions you will accept
* Financial reporting you will provide to investors
* How involved investors will be on the board or in management

## For a Manufacturing Business  

* Explain the operations involved in manufacturing your product/s.
* What equipment is needed? What are the production/capacity limits of the equipment?
* What are the production/capacity limits of the proposed physical plant?
* Is specialized labor needed? 
* What raw materials do you need for manufacturing? Are there any special requirements for storing these? 
* What quality control procedures will you use? 
* How will you manage inventory levels?
* What is your supply chain?
* Explain any new products you’re developing, or products you plan to begin developing after startup. 

## For a Service Business  

* Explain your prices and the methods used to set them. 
* What systems and processes will you use for ensuring consistent delivery of services?  
* What quality control procedures will you use?
* How will you measure employee productivity?
* Will you subcontract any work to other businesses? If so, what percentage of work will be subcontracted? Will you make a profit on subcontracting?
* Explain your credit, payment and collections policies and procedures. 
* How will you maintain your client base and get long-term contracts? 
* Explain any new services you’re developing or services you plan to add after startup. 

## For a Retail Business

* List specific brands you plan to carry that will give you a competitive advantage.
* How will you manage inventory? What inventory management software will you use?
* What forms of payment will you accept? What payment processing service will you use? 
* What point-of-sale software and hardware will you use? 
* Explain your markup policies. Your prices should be profitable, competitive and in line with your brand. 
* Initial inventory level: Find the industry average annual inventory turnover rate (available in the RMA book). Multiply your initial inventory investment by the average turnover rate. The result should be at least equal to your projected first year's cost of goods sold. If not, you may need to budget more for startup inventory.
* What are your customer service policies? 
* How will you handle returns and exchanges? 
* Will your retail store also have an ecommerce site, or is one planned for the future? 

## For an Ecommerce Business  

* Will you sell a physical product, a service, a digital product (such as eBooks) or some combination of these?
* If you’re selling physical products, how will you brand and package them?
* Will you sell on your own website, online marketplaces (such as Amazon) or both?
* What technology providers and platforms will you use to run your ecommerce site?
    * Web hosting service
    * Web design service
    * Shopping cart provider
    * Payment processing service
    * Fulfillment & shipping services
    * Email marketing services 
* Can the solutions you’ve chosen quickly scale up or down as needed?
* Where will you get your products? Will you manufacture them in-house, buy them from manufacturers or use drop shippers? 
* How will you handle returns and exchanges?  
* What are your customer service policies? How will you provide customer service? 
* Will you use any proprietary technology of your own and if so, what advantages does that give you? 

## For a Software or SaaS business 

* What is your pricing structure? Will you use a free trial, “freemium” or paid business model? 
* If you offer free services or a free trial option, how will you upsell customers to a payment model? What percentage of customers are expected to become paying customers? 
* Have you tested your software? Are any “early adopters” already using the product? 
* How will you encourage long-term contracts in order to create recurring revenues? 
* How will you manage rapidly changing markets, technologies and costs?
* How will you keep your company competitive?
* Will you use in-house developers or outsource this function? 
* How will you provide customer support? 
* How will you retain key personnel? 
* Are you using any proprietary or exclusive software that will give you a competitive edge?
* How will you protect your intellectual property? 
* What additional products or updates to current products are you planning after launch? 

Now That You’re (Almost) Finished . . .

Remember to go back, and complete the Executive Summary. 

After you’ve filled out all the worksheets and executive summary, print them out and you have a business plan. Work with a SCORE mentor to review and refine your plan. 
