# VI. Management & Organization

This section should give readers an understanding of the people behind your business, their roles and responsibilities, and their prior experience. If you’re using your business plan to get financing, know that investors and lenders carefully assess whether you have a qualified management team. 

## 1. Biographies
Include brief biographies of the owner/s and key employees. Include resumes in the Appendix. Here, summarize your experience and those of your key employees in a few paragraphs per person. Focus on the prior experience and skills that have prepared your team to succeed in this business. If anyone has previous experience starting and growing a business, explain this in detail. 

## 2. Gaps
Explain how you plan to fill in any gaps in management and/or experience. For instance, if you lack financial know-how, will you hire a CFO or retain an accountant? If you don’t have sales skills, will you hire an in-house sales manager or use outside sales reps? 

## 3. Advisors
List the members of your professional/advisory support team, including:
1. Attorney
2. Accountant
3. Board of directors
4. Advisory board
5. Insurance agent
6. Consultants
7. Banker
8. Mentors and other advisors

If they have experience or specializations that will increase your chances of success, explain. For instance, does your mentor have experience launching and growing a similar business? 

## 4. Organization Chart 
Develop and include an organization chart. This should include both roles that you’ve already filled and roles you plan to fill in the future. 

After reading the Management & Organization section, the reader should feel confident that you have a qualified team leading your business.  

Use the Management Worksheet and Organization Chart on the next two pages to highlight your management team.
